ZIP 316 updates for Unified Raw Encodings (#660)
zcash/zips: zip-0316.rst

Receivers
---------

Every wallet must properly *parse* encodings of a Unified Address or
Unified Viewing Key containing unrecognized Items.

A wallet may process unrecognized Items by indicating to the user their
presence or similar information for usability or diagnostic purposes.

Unified Addresses and Unified Viewing Keys must support sufficiently many
Receiver Types to allow for reasonable future expansion.

Transport Encodings
-------------------

The Unified String Encoding is “opaque” to human readers: it does *not*
allow visual identification of which Receivers or Receiver Types are
present.

The Unified String Encoding is resilient against typos, transcription
errors, cut-and-paste errors, unanticipated truncation, or other

> anticipated UX hazards.

Reviewer: Is this a typo?

```suggestion
unanticipated UX hazards.
```

Author: I will reword this sentence.

string representing a different valid Address in order to lure a user
into sending funds to the wrong Address. In particular, as long as a user
checks sufficiently many characters of a given Unified String Encoding
(say, at least 20 characters) against the corresponding characters of
a known-good reference Unified String Encoding, that check should be
sufficient to give them confidence that a malleability attack would be
infeasible: either they have an invalid Address Encoding, or one
identical to the reference.

There is a well-defined Unified QR Encoding of a Unified Address (or
UFVK or UIVK) as a QR code, which produces QR codes that are reasonably
compact and robust.

There is a well-defined Unified Raw Encoding of a UA/UVK which is a
compact byte sequence, without excessive encoding overhead. Since
the Unified Raw Encoding is intended to only be used internally to
Zcash-related software or transmitted over reliable channels, it need
not have the resilience and nonmalleability properties described above.

There are well-defined transformations between the Unified QR Encoding,
Unified String Encoding, and Unified Raw Encoding of a given UA/UVK in

> any direction.

Author: Separately say that there is a UQRE <-> USE correspondence and a USE <-> URE correspondence.

> There are well-defined transformations between the Unified QR Encoding,
> Unified String Encoding, and Unified Raw Encoding of a given UA/UVK in
> any direction.

Author: ```suggestion
There are well-defined bidirectional transformations between the
Unified String Encoding and Unified Raw Encoding, and between the
Unified String Encoding and Unified QR Encoding of a given UA or UVK.
```

Specification
=============

Rather than defining a Bech32 string encoding of Orchard Shielded
Payment Addresses, we instead define a Unified Address format that
is able to encode a set of Receivers of different types. This enables
the Consumer of a Unified Address to choose the Receiver of the best
type it supports, providing a better user experience as new Receiver
Types are added in the future.

Similarly, a Unified Full Viewing Key or Unified Incoming Viewing Key
provides the corresponding visibility into transactions that may use
addresses of different types. Typically these will be the addresses

> for each pool derived from an Account as defined in [#zip-0032-specification-wallet-usage]_.

Author: ```suggestion
for each pool derived for an Account as defined in [#zip-0032-specification-wallet-usage]_.
```

(It is not possible for a UVK to include viewing keys for multiple

> addresses of the same type.)

Author: ```suggestion
addresses associated with the same pool.)
```

String Encodings of Unified Addresses and Unified Viewing Keys
--------------------------------------------------------------

A Unified String Encoding for a UA/UIVK is obtained by constructing
the corresponding Unified Raw Encoding as defined in previous sections,
and then converting it to a Unified String Encoding as follows.

Let :math:`\ell^\mathsf{MAX}_M` be as defined in `Jumbling`_.

1. Parse and strip the Binary HRP from the start of the Unified Raw Encoding
   :math:`\mathtt{R}`, as follows:

   * If :math:`\mathsf{length}(\mathtt{R}) = 0\!`, reject.

   * Let :math:`\mathtt{hrp\_len} = \mathtt{R}[0]\!`.
     If :math:`\mathtt{hrp\_len} > 16`
     or :math:`\mathtt{hrp\_len} > \mathsf{length}(\mathtt{R}) - 1`
     or :math:`\mathsf{length}(\mathtt{R}) - 1 - \mathtt{hrp\_len} > \ell^\mathsf{MAX}_M - 16\!`, reject.

   * Let :math:`\mathtt{hrp} = \mathtt{R}[1\;..\!=\mathtt{hrp\_len}]\!`.

   * Let :math:`\mathtt{raw\_items} = \mathtt{R}[1 + \mathtt{hrp\_len}\;..\!=\mathsf{length}(\mathtt{R}) - 1]`
     (i.e. the remainder of the Unified Raw Encoding after the Binary HRP).

2. Let :math:`\mathtt{padded\_hrp}` be :math:`\mathtt{hrp}` padded to

>    16 bytes with zero bytes.

Author: ```suggestion
   16 bytes with bytes of value 0.
```

3. Apply the :math:`\mathsf{F4Jumble}` algorithm described in
   `Jumbling`_ to :math:`\mathtt{raw\_items} \,||\, \mathtt{padded\_hrp}\!`.
4. Encode the output with Bech32m [#bip-0350]_, ignoring any length
   restrictions.

Any equivalent procedure MAY be used, for example, a Producer MAY
construct :math:`\mathtt{padded\_hrp}` and :math:`\mathtt{raw\_items}`
directly rather than explicitly obtaining them from a Unified Raw Encoding.

The check that :math:`\mathsf{length}(\mathtt{R}) - 1 - \mathtt{hrp\_len} > \ell^\mathsf{MAX}_M - 16`
in step 1 ensures that :math:`\mathtt{raw\_items} \,||\, \mathtt{padded\_hrp}`
never exceeds the :math:`\mathsf{F4Jumble}` input size limitation in step 3.

Bech32m is chosen over Bech32 in order to better handle variable-length
inputs.

To decode a Unified String Encoding, a Consumer MUST use the following
procedure:

1. Decode using Bech32m, rejecting any address with an incorrect checksum.
   This yields HRP and data fields. If the HRP is not recognised or not
   supported (for example, a Testnet HRP for a Consumer that only supports
   Mainnet), reject.
2. Let :math:`\mathtt{expected\_padded\_hrp}` be the US-ASCII-encoded HRP,

>    padded to 16 bytes with zero bytes.

Author: ```suggestion
   padded to 16 bytes with bytes of value 0.
```
